we're making some potting soil
today and any good potting soil
meets three criteria
it retains moisture for a long
time it drains well and it has
enough fertility to get the
plants off to a good start in
life if you grow out a lot of
potted plants every year like we
do you you could wind up
spending hundreds of dollars a
year on on good potting soil
it's good to learn how to make
your own soil we're going to
start this potting soil out with
a bucket full of sand
got to have saying your potting
soil to make sure it drains well
next what you want to do is you
want to pile up a bunch of
leaves or wood chips
you let him rot down for a year
or two and you strip off the top
and you'll see some nice black
stuff underneath this is a
component of the mixture that's
going to hold a lot of water
the the sand and this this would
be organic matter provides a
nice Airy substrate for the
plant to hang out in but it
provides little fertility we got
a secret ingredient that
provides the fertility that this
material is lacking
all right
on to the next step now time for
the screen ingredient we take
the rabbit poopies and shoveling
over here into this bathtub and
there's red worms in here and
they eat up the rabbit poopies
and then they poop out our
fertilizer of choice warm
castings worm castings are
awesome really expensive to try
to buy them catch you on the
flipside bunny rabbits
now we're going to mix up our
potting soil right so we got the
we got our sand
we got our writing down wood
chips and we got the worm
castings
there's a whole web of symbiotic
relationships taking place in
the soil
thus and enhances the potting
soils ability to drink
this is a sponge essentially so
this holds moisture in the
potting soil mixture
this has all of the nutrients
that that a plant needs to get
get a good start in life
let's go ahead and shift these
materials so that they're more
manageable as you can see this
mixture is becoming coarser and
coarser longer I'm sitting it
and that's because the nice fine
stuff is slipping through this
sieve and i'm just going to kick
this step off to the side
and let the chickens and tea
plants have and there's a nice
sifted stuff that you can see
now let's dump in our worm
casting all right I think we got
this pretty well accept it
check this aside throwing our
sand
once we have this all mixed up
we'll just pack this away into
buckets under the house and
busted that when we're ready to
plant some trees